# Credit Class Creator - Regen Registry

## Introduction

This is a parameter change proposal to add a multisig address managed by members of Regen Network Development (RND) to the list of allowed credit class creators. RND staff are applying on behalf of [Regen Registry](https://registry.regen.network/), what is envisioned to become a community governed registry program owned and operated by experts committed to ecological regeneration.

This proposal was written following the guidelines in [Process For Becoming a Credit Class Creator](https://github.com/regen-network/governance/blob/main/proposals/2021-09-regen-ledger-v2-signalling/credit-class-creator-process.md). The goal of this document is to demonstrate the qualifications of Regen Registry for being an approved credit class creator. This document includes the following:

-   overview of Regen Registry
-   explanation of how Regen Registry plans to manage credits on behalf of community members
-   Regen Registy’s approach to credit class creation
-   full example of planned credit class for Carbon*Plus* Grasslands credits
-   overview of planned credit classes for other credits
-   overview of planned credit classes for credits from other registries    
-   overview of plan for continuous decentralization of Regen Registry
 
In addition, RND staff currently managing Regen Registry are committed to working closely with the community on the migration of credit class data expected in subsequent releases to ensure data is migrated appropriately.

## Regen Registry Overview

[Regen Registry](https://registry.regen.network/) is an emerging ecosystem services registry program operating in the voluntary market that aims to support climate action and sustainable development by accelerating the adoption of nature based solutions which regenerate and restore natural ecosystems. Regen Registry maximizes accessibility to payment for ecosystem service markets by reducing project development costs and streamlining the Monitoring, Reporting and Verification (MRV) processes to increase revenues for land stewards, while maintaining the environmental integrity and scientific rigor necessary to ensure projects developed against its credit classes and methodologies are of the highest quality.

Regen Registry is involved in both the design and evaluation of robust ecosystem service credits and methodologies. The [Regen Registry Program Guide](https://regen-registry.s3.amazonaws.com/Regen+Registry+Program+Guide.pdf) outlines the processes and frameworks by which different stakeholders can engage in the creation, development, and verification of ecological assets and how methodology development should aim to set standards and develop tools that enable transparent monitoring of environmental health and support social impacts in a sustainable way.

In addition to outlining the standards by which credits should be created and reviewed, Regen Registry supports methodology and project developers by providing resources which will aid in the design and evaluation of new methodologies ([Creating a Methodology](https://regen-registry.s3.amazonaws.com/process-for-creating-a-methodology.pdf), [Methodology Peer Review Process](https://registry.regen.network/methodology-review-process), & [Nature Based Solution Framework Methodology](https://docs.google.com/document/u/2/d/1ccQRkhc5fDv1qTtlh7EEJ6eZsJ4IqtbU0Cwd_lwiI5A/edit)) and help get projects off the ground ([Project Bases for CarbonPlus Grasslands](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zfRclxWGtJ46cz9bQoCVtcKd-PLAoSXyiIgUeRN-PPA/edit) & [CarbonPlus FAQs](https://www.regen.network/faq/carbonplus%20credits)).
  
For more information, check out the [Regen Registry Website](https://registry.regen.network/) or read through the [Regen Registry FAQs](https://www.regen.network/faq/regen%20registry).

## Managing Assets for Community Members

Within the context of Regen Ledger, a credit class is a data object stored on-chain that defines ecosystem service credits and the list of addresses, ie. individuals and groups of people, willing to manage and oversee the creation and issuance of ecological credits. At this early stage Regen Ledger is only accessible via the command line interface, limiting the ability to mint new ecological assets to those with more technical expertise and familiarity with blockchain technology.

Over the next few months, tools and touch points are being made to create pathways for the wider Regen community to be able to utilize Regen Network, but at this early stage where the software client is a command line interface Regen Registry expects to help community members create and manage on-chain assets, both for credits produced natively through the Regen Registry program and for credits from other registries, such as Verra, Gold Standard, or American Carbon Registry.

## Approach to Credit Class Creation

In addition to storing a list of addresses which have the permission to issue and manage new eco-credits, credit classes store important information about the type of credit being created. With that said, credit design should carefully examine the needs of both land steward and buyers in a given ecological and best management practice(s) context, and devise a solution that addresses the intersection of those needs. So what is our approach to credit class creation?

Regen Registry aims to use *credit classes* to democratize and invigorate the design of ecosystem service credits by providing users with a flexible and modular approach which unites different measurement systems under shared sets of definitions, rules, and requirements. For land stewards, this means designing credits in a way that is context specific; a bottom up, rather than a top-down solution. While more traditional approaches often rely on a single methodology to define everything from the measurement approach to the project verification and credit issuance requirements, the credit class provides the flexibility needed to overcome financial constraints, access to scientific resources, eligibility requirements, and site specific limitations by separating out the methodology from the programmatic requirements of a credit. In this way Regen Registry hopes to provide an adaptable solution to building ecosystem service credits which allows individuals to define their own credit parameters then choose a measurement approach from our growing library of methodologies and tools used to quantify changes in ecosystem health. 

For more information on our approach to credit design, check out our [Credit Class & Methodology Development Guidelines](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14yfhscAIB8NreQMz6fTnWqbApvNflo0H0saybdrYewo/edit).

## Carbon*Plus* Grasslands Credit Class

One of the first credit classes Regen Registry plans to launch on Regen Ledger is the [Carbon*Plus* Grasslands Credit Class](https://regen-registry.s3.amazonaws.com/GHG+and+Co-Benefits+in+Grazing+Systems+Credit+Class.pdf) which, with the [Methodology for GHG & Co-Benefits in Grazing Systems](https://regen-registry.s3.amazonaws.com/Methodology+for+GHG+and+Co-Benefits+in+Grazing+Systems.pdf), supports land stewards by providing a holistic assessment of multiple ecological state indicators for grasslands under the practice of prescribed grazing. The methodology can be used to obtain estimates of soil organic carbon stocks and measure additional ecological co-benefits such as animal welfare, ecosystem health, and soil health to create Carbon*Plus* credits. 

Upon launch, the credit class will be used to issue credits to the [Wilmot](https://registry.regen.network/projects/wilmot), [Woodburn](https://registry.regen.network/projects/woodburn), and [Cavan](https://registry.regen.network/projects/cavan-station) projects, as well as for other projects enrolled in the grasslands program. For more information on the on Carbon*Plus* Grasslands credit, visit our [Carbon*Plus* Grasslands Website](https://registry.regen.network/credit-classes/carbonplus-grasslands/buyer) or [Carbon*Plus* Grasslands FAQ](https://www.regen.network/faq/carbonplus%20credits).

## Future Credit Classes for the Regen Registry Program

In addition to our Carbon*Plus* grasslands credit class, Regen Registry plans to facilitate the creation of a series of new credit classes for methodologies produced by both our own internal team and community members working to develop projects through the Regen Registry program. The list of future credit classes includes, but is not limited to: 
- **GHG & Co-Benefits in ICLS-ISVS Grazing Systems Credit Class**  focused on soil organic carbon sequestration and improved soil health in integrated sheep-vineyard systems (ISVS), a specific case of integrated crop-livestock systems (ICLS). While still in the early stages of development, this credit class will focus on supporting the adoption of ISVS grazing to help rebuild soil, contribute to fuel load reduction, improve animal welfare, and help reduce or avoide fertilizer usage. 
- **Organic Farming in  Aquaculture Systems Credit Class** is a carbon credit which provides carbon removal through maintenance of fish farms using organic farming policies to maintain the health of aquaculture systems and carbon sequester using algae.
- **Carbon*Plus* Native Reforestation Credit Class** aims to address land degradation and a loss of vegetation by reforesting cleared areas to restore biomass, enhance net carbon sequestration, and improving biodiversity. Reforestation provides an alternative for cleared land that can significantly reduce the emissions caused by the prior land-use practice (usually agricultural) and restore carbon to the terrestrial carbon pools of above and below ground biomass and improved soil organic carbon storage.
- **Golden Soil Credit Class** will support the transition to nature-positive agroecological practices to add long term value to people, smallholder communities, and ecosystems in the farming industry by rewarding regenerative practices. This credit class, while still in the early stages of development, will facilitate the adoption of regenerative cropping practices in the Global South by rewarding projects for the first 2 years based on practice change to help fund the development of eco-credits which look at carbon and more.  
- **Carbon*Plus* Agroforestry Credit Class** will facilitate the expansion of agroforestry systems in Brazil and other countries in the pantropics to reverse climate change by supporting the planting of tree species which will provide food and medicine to the community while increasing the amount of carbon stored in plants and the soil.

## Credit Classes for Credits from Other Registries

In addition to creating credit classes for projects native to the Regen Registry Program, Regen Registry plans to support in the digitization of credits produced by other registries. Regen Ledger is designed to be an open platform which enables transparent monitoring and verification of any and all claims related to ecological state. With this in mind, the Regen Registry team hopes to support other registry programs to migrate their credits onto Regen Ledger by creating credit classes which make this possible. We will start by credit classes for the [Verra Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) Program](https://verra.org/project/vcs-program/) and the [City Forestry Credits Tree Preservation Protocols](https://www.cityforestcredits.org/carbon-credits/carbon-protocols/) which have produced credits launching in the Regen marketplace during spring 2022 (see [Kasigau Corridor REDD+ Project](https://registry.regen.network/projects/kasigau) for an example).

## Plans to Decentralize Regen Registry

At its core, the Regen Registry program is founded on the idea that collaboration and interdisciplinary knowledge sharing is key to decoding environmental complexity in a way which advances practitioner literacy and technological capacity equitably so that earth observation tools best serve regeneration efforts and the communities. By harnessing organic connection, Regen Registry brings together academic researchers, land stewards, technologists and climate entrepreneurs to cultivate the broad range of skills, values, and attitudes needed to financial constraints, access to scientific resources, eligibility requirements, and site specific limitations to provide bottom-up rather than top-down solutions.

At present, the Regen Registry is still in the early stages of development. While we await interfaces to make Regen Ledger more accessible to the broader community, our own internal team plans to take on much of the credit class creation, administration, and issuance. However, in the coming months we hope to train others to take on these important tasks such that we can shift credit class administration and issuance to our partners and community members. Our team also plans to develop user-facing interfaces and other coordination tools like the group module and multi-signature and “DAO” software which will support decentralized governance of the Registry. This, we hope, will help to engage our growing network of land stewards, scientists, project, & methodology developers in appreciating the design of the Registry program such that Regen Registry is being built by a community of experts  committed to ecological regeneration.
